Created by: Carter Nesbitt <ccnesbitt@gmail.com>
Created on: 21 July 2024
Description: Test suite for SSH connectivity using password and key-based authentication

Test environment setup:
    - Ensure server is on, and both the client and server is connected to WiFi, have SSH connectivity enabled
    - Define constraints for password authentication
        - Password constraints (length, character requirements/exclusions, etc.)
        - Password rollover periods (how often users are required to change their password)
    - Review acceptable SSH key types on server (RSA, ed25519, etc.)

Teardown:
    - Delete any user accounts created during testing sequence from server
    - Remove any public keys created during testing sequence from server
    - Remove any public/private keys created during testing sequence from client

Tools used in testing:
    - Terminal for SSH CLI and file creation/modification
    - SSH connectivity tool installed on client/server (OpenSSH)
    - Scripting language such as bash, perl or python to automate testing

Tests:

    Test group 1: User account creation
        Preconditions:
            - Unless otherwise specified, user account does not yet exist
            - Unless otherwise specified, user provides valid password during account creation

        1. User attempts to create an account on server, not adhering to password creation constraints
           Expectation: User account is not created

        2. User attempts to create an account on server with pre-existing username
           Expectation: User account is not created

        3. User attempts to create an account on server whilst adhering to password creation constraints
           Expectation: User account is created

    Test group 2: Password-based SSH authentication
        Preconditions:
            - Unless otherwise specified, user account exists and is properly setup on the server

        1. User attempts SSH connection to server with incorrect password for an existing user
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        2. User attempts SSH connection to server with an invalid account username
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        3. User attempts SSH connection to server with correct password
           Expectation: SSH connection successful

        4. User attempts SSH connection to server using password created before the server’s most recent password-rollover
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

    Test group 3: Key-based SSH authentication
        Preconditions:
            - Unless otherwise specified, user has created a valid public/private key-pair
            - Unless otherwise specified, user’s key type is recognized by server
            - Unless otherwise specified, user’s public key is included in the corresponding ~/.ssh/authorized_keys file on the server
            - Unless otherwise specified, client's private key file has the correct permissions needed for SSH connectivity

        1. User attempts SSH connection with key-pair, but does not copy public key to server’s authorized_keys file
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        2. User attempts SSH connection with key-pair, but private key file on client is accessible by other (non-root) users
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        3. User attempts SSH connection with key-pair, but private key used does not match public key on server
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        4. User attempts SSH connection with key-pair created with key-type not recognizable by server
           Expectation: SSH connection not successful

        5. User attempts SSH connection with proper key-pair
           Expectation: SSH connection successful

    Test group 4: Miscellaneous tests
        Preconditions:
            - Unless otherwise specified any and all clients have valid server credentials

        1. Two clients attempt to connect to server simulataneously using separate usernames
           Expectation: SSH connection successful for both clients

        2. Two clients attempt to connect to server simulataneously using the same username
           Expectation: SSH connection successful for both clients

        3. Client is connected to server, and is inactive for longer than the SSH connection timeout period
           Expectation: SSH connection is terminated

        4. Client is connected to server, and significant network delays are experienced, resulting in an incomplete TCP handshake
           Expectation: SSH connection is terminated

